# Simple Universal Model

How to value, hedge, and manage the risk of any
collection of intruments.

## Model

Let $T$ be a finite totally ordered set of _trading times_,
$I$ a finite set of _market instruments_,
$\Omega$ be the set of possible outcomes, and $(𝒜_t)$ be partitions of $\Omega$ representing information available at time $t\in T$.

### Price

We let $\Omega_X = (\bm{Z}^I)^T$ be the set of
all functions from $T$ to the integers
indexed by instruments.
The point $(t,x)$ represents the prices
at time $t$. The price of instrument $i$, $X_t(i)$,
is $x(i)$ times the minimum trading increment of instrument $i$.

Note we do not assume the price 
of an instrument is a real number and use its exact value.

### Cash Flow

We let $\Omega_C = (\bm{Z}^I)^T$ be the set of
all functions from $T$ to the integers
indexed by instruments.
The point $(t,c)$ represents the cash flows
at time $t$. The cash flow of instrument $i$, $C_t(i)$,
is $c(i)$ times the minimum payment increment of instrument $i$.

Note we do not assume the cash flow 
of an instrument is a real number and use its exact value.

### Trading

We let $\Omega_\Gamma = (\bm{Z}^I)^T$ be the set of
all functions from $T$ to the integers
indexed by instruments.
The point $(t,\gamma)$ represents the number of shares
traded at at time $t$. 
The number of shares of instrument $i$, $\Gamma_t(i)$,
is $\gamma(i)$ times the minimum share increment of instrument $i$.

A trading strategy is an increasing sequence of stopping times $\tau_j$
and number of shares to trade $\Gamma_j\colon 𝒜_{\tau_j} \to \bm{Z}^I$.

The position at time $t$ is 
$\Delta_t = \sum_{\tau_j < t} \Gamma_j = \sum_{s < t} \Gamma_s$
where $\Gamma_s = \Gamma_j$ if $s = \tau_j$ for some $j$ and 0 otherwise.
Note the strict inequality. It takes some time for trades to settle.

Define the value at time $t$ of a trading strategy by
$V_t = (\Delta_t + \Gamma_t)\cdot X_t$ 
and the amounts generated by the strategy $A_t = \Delta_t\cdot C_t - \Gamma_t\cdot X_t$.

### Accounting

Define the _value_ (or _mark-to-market_) at time $t$ of a trading strategy by
$V_t = (\Delta_t + \Gamma_t)\cdot X_t$. It is how much you get from liquidating
the existing position and the trades just done at current market prices.
Note $\Delta_t + \Gamma_t = \Delta_{t + \epsilon}$ for sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$.

The _amounts_ generated by the trading strategy are
 $A_t = \Delta_t\cdot C_t - \Gamma_t\cdot X_t$. You get cash flows proportional
 to your existing position and pay for the trades just executed.

 ## Arbitrage

 Arbitrage exists (in this model) if there is a trading strategy 
 $(\tau_j, \Gamma_j)$ with $A_{\tau_0} > 0$,
 $A_t \ge 0$ for $t > \tau_0$, and $\sum_j \Gamma_j = 0$.
 You make money on the first trade, never lose money after that,
 and eventually manage to close out. The last condition prevents
 Nick Leeson strategies of just borrowing money until you put
 a 350 year old bank out of business.

 Note this definition of arbitrage does not involve probablity. 

Every arbitrage-free model has the form $X_t D_t = M_t - \sum_{s < t} C_s D_s|_{𝒜_t}$, 
where $M_t$ is a vector-valued martingale measure and $D_t$ is the stochastic discount.
(Any positive finitely-additive measures $D_t\in ba(𝒜_t)$ can be used.)

